---
title: Modern Art
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-06-11T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/pink-sunset-beach-hawaii-honolulu-pink-sunset.jpg
---
When my girls were in high school, they used to love to go with their friends and watch the sunset. I had a place where I liked to go with my friends, and it was called “the tree”. This was in the abandoned streets next to the airport. It used to be a neighborhood but when they built the airport everyone who lived there was bought out. I never really thought about who used to live there. It had streets and driveways to nowhere. I learned to drive in this place. And one day we started parking our cars there in front of a lone tree and we would laugh and do the things that teenagers did. We would drink Pabst Blue Ribbon taken from the dad’s stock at home and we would just hang out. Most people I knew were Catholic. There were three Catholic schools in the area and a Jesuit University just a few blocks from home. We were good kids. But we were trying to figure things out. At least I was. The search was on even then for the meaning of life. One of my daughters used to describe the sunset to me that she saw when watching it with her friends. And she would often show me pictures on her phone. I was always amazed that she even noticed the colors of the sky. I don’t think I much thought about it, or at least I don’t remember thinking about the beauty of the sky. But as I looked at the picture on her phone I thought what a work of art! Not the photo, but the sunset. 

I was much more interested in having friends and being a friend then I was anything else. I guess my grades reflected that. I had a good education. I was given the privilege of attending twelve years at private Catholic schools. I can’t ever remember being much interested in a subject except English Literature. It’s the only class I ever gave some effort in. Unfortunately, it went unnoticed until I had Sister Mary Clair in Sophomore year. I was writing an actual book using a pen and college ruled notebook paper and she encouraged me along the way. And one day I got to school and she just wasn’t there anymore. I heard she escaped from the convent, but I really don’t know what ever happened to her. When I saw my Junior and Senior year English teacher at my ten year high school reunion I told her I published an article In *The Journal of Dental Hygiene* and how much I enjoyed writing. She gave me a blank stare, and said she never knew. 

Art was an elective that I never elected to take because, well, I was just bad at it. If I had to draw something today it would have stick figures. I just don’t have the patience. This quarantine however have my daughters drawing and coloring and creating. I can’t say I promoted much art as I was raising them. It was more about deadlines and just finishing the work. Their education wasn’t really something I could even actively engage in some constructive conversation. By fifth grade math they were already well beyond my level.  It was more about lets just get it done so I can take us all to the beach.  I distinctly remember a few years back noticing the sky. White puffy clouds were appearing and even though I remember making pictures out of those clouds on cross country trips as a child, I am not sure I had the time to contemplate the clouds while fighting to stay married and raising three daughters. And so I started to see the red sky in the morning and I would remember what I learned while studying weather, in Navy Boot Camp. The drill instructor said, “red skies at night, a sailor’s delight, but red skies in the morning, sailors take warning” and while I began to have these eyes a few years ago to see the sky again, tears welled and the flood gates opened. It was morning and the skies were red. I guess the rain came out of my eyes. The merchant ships were not in danger, it was just my heart, because something broke open that day. I think I might know how the Grinch felt when his heart grew two sizes.


I not only saw the sky but it seemed everything started speaking to me. It was like a new discovery every day. Lucky I had an audience to listen to me. I had been leading a bible study and I spoke of these many things. I just passed that ministry on after eight years to dedicate more of my time to my work as a dental hygienist and to my writing. 


In my niche of the world a Catholic film school found its way right to the center of our town. Its fun to see the college kids milling around downtown much like that Jesuit school I grew up next to. It seems the art of film is on the forefront these days. Present day artists who write for the screen seem to be pretty busy these days. Lucky for me those eyes that started seeing good things in everything didn’t discriminate when it came to movies. Fascinating to watch. It seemed connections were being made for me left and right. A friend of mine told me about this job as a [San Diego Film Festival](https://sdfilmfest.com/) Screener. I applied.


So now I get to actually watch films as a job, and write reviews so sitting with my ear buds in and my laptop isn’t what it looks like. I am not wasting away hours of my time to finish the season of The Sopranos, I am working. Its been great. And its opened my eyes to so many things. So many gifted people putting their heart on film. It comes in many ways. And even though I see the many different ways people come from it all seems to go to the same places. They move towards love or they move towards war. I guess there really are no rules in love and war.


Artists speak of the present times, by putting their heart into whatever they do. They are present day prophets and the signs of the times are seen through their creations. Take for example a board game we discovered a year ago. My daughter, who graduated with a public health degree during the recent quarantine, became addicted. She played it with her cousin and then went out and bought it herself so she could take it back to school. The name of the game is* [Pandemic](https://store.steampowered.com/app/622440/Pandemic_The_Board_Game/)*. There are no winners, all the players work collaboratively together to solve the health crisis.


When I studied at the Theology of the Body Institute, Christopher would tell us to put on our TOB lenses at the beginning of class. And we would pray for the eyes to see. I guess maybe that’s what happened. It makes me think of that song by the Doors, *Break On Through to the Other Side*. Well Christopher, I think our prayers were answered. Thank you, my friend.