---
title: Full of Air (Brain Health)
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-05-05T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/hot-air-balloon-1452711932549-e7ea7f129399.jpg
---
I have five brothers and sisters. When we were growing up as Halloween approached we would turn our backyard into a haunted house. For fifty cents we would take the neighborhood kids through it. The first section we would apply a blindfold and have them touch a variety of things. One was a bowl full of mushy wet toilet paper and we would tell them it was a brain. 

In 1971 at 4yrs old I was hit by a car. After my mother revived me with CPR I was rushed to the hospital. I was breathing but unresponsive otherwise. The science of MRI was just coming but nothing like that was available. So in order to check for bleeding in the brain they drilled six holes into my head. My family was told I would most likely not survive or I would be a “vegetable”. My left side was paralyzed, and I was in a coma for six days. Miraculously, it seemed, I made a full recovery.

When I was in high school, I took on the name of “airhead”. It seemed I was quite prone to daydreaming. I had an exceedingly difficult time focusing and paying attention in school. This accident always came in handy when I had to explain myself. Maybe I did have a little lingering head trauma after all.

Healing comes to individuals in many ways. Being a dental hygienist and trying to keep up with all the developments in medicine is impossible. With COVID 19 I have been using my time to try to get on top of the latest in my field. I have ten books and webinars and Zoom classes keeping me remarkably busy. A couple years ago I read a book called [Oxygen Advantage ](http://www.oxygenadvantage.com)by [Patrick McKeown](http://buteykoclinic.com). Now I had been experiencing a lot of different awakenings around this time so I can’t pinpoint it all to this but after practicing something called mouth taping while sleeping to promote nasal breathing, and also at the gym in spin class I noticed that my[ Fitbit](http://fitbit.com) registered my heart rate and my time of aerobic activity differently. After I would finish a sixty-minute spin class my heart rate would be very high and my time of aerobic activity would register as forty minutes.  Once I started only breathing through my nose, I noticed my heart rate would not read as high and the time of aerobic activity would be 50 minutes. My endurance seemed to also improve. Anyone that goes to the gym or works out hard knows how hard it is to breathe only though your nose. You feel Oxygen Deprived. But the truth is by mouth breathing I was putting myself in a constant state of hyperventilation.

After a short time in practicing the taping I noticed these changes. My anxiety (that I didn’t realize I had) was replaced with calm. I was sleeping better. But one of the main things I noticed was I was better able to focus. Today they use the terms, being present or mindful. I experienced this. I took that book around with me like it was my bible. I even emailed Patrick because he had become my new guru, I was a follower, and he actually responded… I was star struck.

Neuroscience is one of those disciplines that seems to be expanding exponentially. They have found that new neuropathways can develop all the time. New ways of knowing and learning and doing is not unattainable. You are not stuck in the category’s others have put you in or you took on yourself. Change can happen and nasal breathing is one of the ways that can take you there. In order to function we need to have oxygen. Practicing this, without going into detail, delivers oxygen more readily to the tissues of the body, the brain being one of the most important because of all the processes it regulates within the body.

We are all reflections of who we think we are. And one day as one evolves they come to know the true reflection that is buried deep down under a barrage of eventsand traumatic instances throughout life that beginto bury the treasure you once knew as a child or your younger self. I picked out this picture because for much of my life I carried around this idea that all that was in my head was air. I was laughed at and pushed to the side as not knowing anything. But what I have discovered is all of my life, everything I suffered and learned and fought for has resulted in an array of colors, different parts of me, reflecting the very Sacred Heart.