---
title: The Mother Lode
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-06-07T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/img_1593.jpg
---
You know about the wrestling that goes on in the middle of the night. Those minutes or hours it seems that you tossand turn yanking the covers tighter to you as if they will somehow snuggle you to sleep. I have probably recited that prayer I was taught as a child, The Hail Mary, a billion times by now. The words just repeat and they are somehow like sheep jumping over fences until I sleep again. Well, I had one of those nights. I feel akin to Jacob at the base of the ladder, ( see Genesis 28) It was a full on battle. And it went on in my mind. The great battlefield of today. 

Trying to keep up on all the philosophical and scientific discoveries is a never ending battle. It’s like the hidden treasure has been found but it’s got a note inside telling you this really isn’t the mother lode, keep going. There is always going to be something else to learn, something else to know. I guess that’s our fate. If I think about the Bible story of Adam and Eve, I can easily see them looking at that luscious apple. I mean, who am I kidding, I would have done exactly the same thing. I mean really, I have little self control and I am impulsive. I can almost imagine myself sitting there with Adam under the tree after crunching into that goodness and we both just look at each other knowing we are going to get caught with our hands in the cookie jar.

Now there are two ways to look at this cookie jar thing. It took me many years to see the other side of the story. I was raised to believe that what Adam and Eve did was wrong, and they were punished for it. And I carried this thinking right through my military years, my marriage, my child rearing.  But through it all I kept on that search for the mother lode. A few years ago, I was given a book by my spiritual director, Invitation to Love, by Thomas Keating. I could write a hundred blogs about what I learned here but let’s just stay focused.

A monk was describing a grace he received about Gods mercy. He says, “I realized that if as a child I had put my hand in the cookie jar, and if it had been in between meals, and if God was watching me, he would have said, “Son, why don’t you take two?” I am not going to lie, the words I read made me cry. Is the God I have been searching for really this kind and merciful? This understanding led me eventually to let go of trying to be perfect. And something happened that I didn’t expect. C.S. Lewis says it best in the title of his autobiography, I was, Surprised by Joy.

I think I was the worst mom. I know my kids love sugar. As a dental hygienist I am not proud of this fact but when I would be out grocery shopping and I was overcome by love for my children I would buy a large bag of Sour Patch Kids and they would devour them thanking me while smiling and laughing. And because it made them happy, I was happy. I know I was essentially giving them Crack but I couldn’t help it! Best summed up in Matthew 7:11 “If you then, who are wicked, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Mother/Father give good things to those who ask.

A mother’s love is sometimes all that is needed to lift the spirit, to encourage the broken hearted, to provide hope for despair. When looking at the state of affairs today I think it’s safe to say we could all use a lap of a mother to cry in and bang our fists against at the injustices of the world while gently being kissed on the back of our heads as her apron is being soaked by out tears…. Now I realize this depiction of a mother is one for a Norman Rockwell painting but hey, sometimes you can dream. 

As a Catholic I had a Mother I could look to. While this subject is of great dissension amongst the different sects of Christianity I can only speak from my place of personal experience and understanding. I have always known the good Mother, she was always there in the distance, looking to perfect to be true. In films there are always metaphors for her. She was the Fairy God Mother in Cinderella and I saw her most recently in the very human depiction of Carmela Soprano, preformed by [Edie Falco, in the HBO Series, The Soprannos](https://www.hbo.com/the-sopranos). They would go to the end for their child. A good mother is gentle and fierce with love.

When I married thirty years ago, at the end of the ceremony I left my bouquet at the feet of the great Matriarch, whom we call in the Church, Mary, Queen of Heaven. She was untouchable. She was a vision for me but unreachable in every way, but she was always there in the distance. She has been seen by many of all cultures and she is always depicted as their very own Mother. She transcends color and race; she is all colors. She is everyone’s mother. She has many names,[ Our Lady of Fatima](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Lady_of_F%C3%A1tima), [Our Lady of Guadalupe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Our_Lady_of_Guadalupe), , and one I recently stumbled upon during my travels to South America while touring Machu Picchu. She is Racha Mama and she is Maternal Wisdom, Mother Earth. She is depicted with the belly of a pregnant woman and within; it is all of humanity. I cannot provide a link to this as I took this photo while touring Aguas Calientas and the catholic heritage of the Inca people. I also snapped a picture of the inscription of who this was, it was titled *Heritage and Maternal Wisdom.* While this is not my vision, I can only wonder at whose hands this image found its way into this rock, it must have taken years.

I think I found the Mother Lode. It comes not only in a good Father but also a good Mother. Perhaps that is why our first words seem to be "Dadda", and when we are close to death there is only one word that finds its way to our lips,and it is "Momma". For me this revelation was the mother lode of all treasures. She is love.