---
title: There is Value in Tradition
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-06-27T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/lili-popper-lu15z1m_kfm-unsplash-1-.jpg
---
When I was a child my parents bought a cabin in the mountains. We would go there frequently. As a mother myself I can see what a nice escape this was for them. To get away from the pressures of life and to go to the mountaintop. Here there was peace. Instead of a television we played games and did puzzles. We trekked through forests of snow-topped trees as are feet sank a foot with each step. As we got older we would go into town and play at the arcade or walk to the miniature golf course at the end of the street. At the end of the weekend we would pack up the car and head down the mountain. As we neared home we would stop by the market and pick up makings for ice cream sundae’s and this would be our dinner so mom didn’t have to cook. 

Tradition holds meaning. It’s something that becomes deeply engrained. It may not mean anything at the time as a child but as time moves on its these comforts, these rituals, these deep seeded memories that make sense of your life. This frivolous recurring event is just one of the many traditions I remember. It is only as I mother I can see how difficult it could be to keep the traditions going. My childhood nightly family dinners for example, they were just understood. It was something we did. Eight of us packed around the table every night beginning with a prayer and even ending with one. The strength it must have taken for my mom to uphold this. We always complained about the end of meal prayers. We were suppose to come up with something we were thankful for. It was always the same. My mom would put her heart out there. She was thankful for family and all I wanted to do was get back outside to play Red Rover with the kids on the block. “Thank you for a good day, and help me have a good day tomorrow” I said it as fast as I could running the words together and trying to beat the time it took every night.

I didn’t have as much luck as I raised my family. God knows I tried but only my children could tell you what traditions we practiced. Because for me it was just about survival. As much as I wanted the perfection of my family that I came from I was so far from it. My life became about routines. It seemed the easiest way for me to stay focused. Mealtime, playtime, nap time. As my babies grew so did the routine. Until they grew so much their things became harder to control. The more out of control I felt the more it exhibited itself outside of me. Eventually I would send up the white flag. This happened in my morning quiet time when I would tell God "I can’t do this. It’s too much. I feel so scattered it’s like nothing makes any sense". And somehow I would get through it.

I think about this time we are in right now. COVID19 whatever it means…I imagine we will look back in hindsight and know more but right now while we are in it there is nothing to do but surrender. It’s a battle though. I feel it in my body and I have talked to many people who feel the same. They are dizzy, their allergies are like never before, headaches and soreness of joints. Its like a big earthquake came and we are just trying to find our bearings. The one tradition that connects all Christians would be a Sunday Celebration of the Resurrection. And even that was taken away. 

When I think about the early Church I wonder how we ever survived. The very first widespread compilation of the Bible wasn’t until 400 AD by St Jerome. As a Catholic we rely on Tradition. The apostles and the disciples that were eye witnesses of Jesus traveled near and far spreading the Good News of the Resurrection. They told stories of Jesus. This is how the life of Jesus was kept alive. 

When I was raising my children I could barely remember yesterday much less be able to tell them stories of myself. My memory was very clouded. It’s a funny thing as your children begin to reach adult age the relationship changes. Much of the pressure, for me at least, has been taken away. I gave them all I had now they have to take it and run. And they have but it seems now they are calling me more, asking for direction and guidance. I think it’s every parent’s dream to have this happen. And it’s funny because whatever they ask it seems a memory of me being in the same position will pop into my head and by sharing my own experience it somehow sheds light on their questions and for me it’s miracle. I really didn’t do anything out of the ordinary, but they seem to walk away satisfied. 

Tradition outside of Catholic circles are termed ritualistic and lacking in some way. I admit, for much of my life I practiced tradition without any life but one day I found that practice really does make perfect. One day not long ago the path of Tradition and the path of Life converged and now it seems we are in movement together.

Photo credit [Lili Popper](https://unsplash.com/@lili_popper?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)