---
title: Battle Ready
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-05-17T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/img_4003.jpg
---
Today I went in for battle. I could only think I was made for this. They call it donning and doffing, these are terms that describe the putting on and off your battle gear, or in this case, scrubs. In this picture I am still not fully suited, I am missing a disposable gown and face shield, but at fifty plus, hot flashes come easy so I chose to pose without them.

Comrades of mine who have fought the wars in The Middle East wore camouflage and armed themselves with guns and explosive ammo. I imagine Joan of Arc in heavy armor during the days of the Spanish Inquisition. It seems though today; the world is at war with a virus. It’s smaller than can be seen with the naked eye. To look at it under the microscope the scientist must be fully donned. And the battle gear are masks, head coverings, shields, gloves, and distance.

For thirty plus years I have been going up against Streptococcus Mutans, Porphyromonas Gingivalis and the like. The microscopic enemies can bring down the whole system if you let them. As any good soldier knows you cannot go into battle alone. Once I received my dogtags (RDH license) and was able to step foot on the battleground I was blessed to work and be taught by some of the best dentists I know. But more than that, you need a body in the chair, who is many times, fighting fear by just entering your room. And it is not fear of these small bugs, it’s me! After all, I hold the sharp weapons that will help me conquer.

So yesterday, after two months of convalescence due to COVID19. I was anxious. I mean I had been wearing gloves for the whole of my career, but I remember when I was a child the naked hands of my dentist going in. They always smelled like Scope. I think he must have washed his hands with it. So now, not only gloves but two masks, one of which hurts to wear because it pulls on your ears and puts a dent in your nose, but hey, Joan of Arc wore full on battle gear, I can do this. And the truth is, it was not as bad as I was imagining. I still felt the connection to the patient, through it all, through all the barriers I was still able to hear the patient. And it felt good to be able to provide something for someone after two months of cooking and cleaning for a family of five adults, as all my children were back home. And yes, they are all adults but there is only one mom. And while I love being a mom, I also love my work.

Here is the crux of it. The battle of life is constant. And the number one enemy is fear. I remember in the first couple weeks while sorting through the reality of the worldwide pandemic it was hard to find secure footing. So many things coming at me. Everyone had this to say or that to say. And if I just didn’t want to think about it, I could go to my social media pages and laugh for hours at some of the genius that came through in making light of the situation. But one thing I kept constant, through it all, is my spiritual weaponry. I continued as I have for twenty plus years waking early and spending time in silence. It is here that I could find truth. It is only here that I could be filled with the confidence I needed to see the day through. It did not come in an audible voice. It came with a knowing in my physical body, an understanding. All my thoughts and all my readings from different sources, some spiritual and some scientific, seemed to be all connected.

When I first started to wake up twenty plus years ago, I remember asking my spiritual teachers, how do you know? how do you see? And their answers never really gave me what I was looking for, I had to find them myself. It was then I read these words , “Blessed are your eyes, because they see, and your ears because they hear...." Matthew 13:16 This is called the Privilege of Discipleship and so I became a disciple of Christ. The Word became like food for me and I consumed it like Ezekiel was instructed to eat the scrolls (Ezekial 3:3)

And so, I have kept on but I know that fear has shut this seeing and hearing down many times. And it was something about this time, this pandemic, even though I had heard the words a million times it was like the first time,“ ….Don’t be afraid, do you remember I slept soundly during the storm only to be awakened by my friends with little faith….?”(Mark 4:35-41)And it was then, from the beginning that I chose to move past fear.

So if you are due for your dental hygiene visit and check up, please make the call and push past the enemy of fear, provided you are not sick yourself or have some underlying health issues that would put you at risk. Its important to tend to the health of the body. 

Please feel free to include your information below. I welcome any questions or comments and I will personally respond.