---
title: The Journey
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-05-30T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/jordan-madrid-idzkdni7qgc-unsplash.jpg
---
Do you ever feel like you just want someone to tell you what to do? There are so many thoughts racing through your mind it would be a comfort to have someone come up behind you, grab your shoulders and point you in the right direction. And you just start walking. You just put one foot in front of the other and walk. I see Forrest Gump running. And it seems all is well. And one day, something called doubt starts to pervade. It creeps in, barely noticeable, and one day you realize you are looking back not forward. Your caught wondering if everything you have done up to this point was just born from your own need, and therefore everything you have done was futile. Your stuck, you can’t move either way. It’s like you were turned into a pillar of salt like Lots wife when she chose to look back.

As things begin to open after the world shut down for two months there will be so many questions like these. I can’t get caught wondering, I have to just continue on my way. The problem is, after two months of slowing down my body is not what it used to be, it has changed. Physically, maybe, I mean I just don’t want to get on a scale, and I haven’t been wearing anything with a waistband for two months so clearly I am just in denial. The only thing I do know is how I feel, and it’s-exhausted!

I went back to work a couple weeks ago. It’s like everything I used to do automatically has now turned into this twenty-step questioning, do you have your mask on? Did you wash your hands? Did they wash their hands?  What’s your temperature? And the questions go on and on. Amidst all these questions I am trying to just do my job which is clean the patients’ teeth. My job was always one of focus, staying focused. And now it has become so intense that by the end of the day I go home, and I can barely speak a word to my family. I go straight for the shower and straight to bed. And if anyone asks what’s for dinner they better think twice. 

I was talking to one of my patients. She was telling me about her first outing to the store after having most of her food delivered for the last two months. She said it felt so strange because she hadn’t been out in so long. And after navigating the arrows in the aisles and the keeping six feet apart and the mask wearing while you are pushing the cart, feeling like you can’t breathe, she got home and felt like she had run a marathon.

The new normal. If it took any effort before to get going it’s been nocked up five notches. Yesterday I had all intentions of stocking the refrigerator on my day off and it just never happened. I am hoping today will be better but I am on my second cup of coffee and I am dragging. It’s been interesting for me because I can get a take from a variety of people as I clean their teeth. One of my patients said the lack of routine has thrown him for a loop. “It’s so hard” he said.

So at least I know I am not alone. Routine has always been important to me in my adult life so I can relate. It gave me a sense of control, like I knew what was coming next. It took guessing out and allowed me to forge ahead even when I didn’t necessarily feel like it, my routine kept me in motion.  I think I am still going forward, it’s just kind of a zig zagged forward as I try to find the center line.

I had a new book delivered to my door the other day. It’s one I forgot about because I preordered it some time back. It’s one of my favorite kind, a hard cover, [*The Brain based Enneagram* by Dr. Jerome](https://www.wholeidentity.com/). I haven’t had the chance to start reading it yet but the first page has a kind of brain/compass drawing pointing in all four directions, North has “be loved” inscribed above it, South has “belong” inscribed below it. To go East you will fulfill that deep longing to be known and to go West you will satisfy the human need to be seen. I can only conclude that I will enjoy this book. 

You have heard it said, “what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger” well I suppose for those of us who survive this pandemic will be the latter. There was a time when I would read the scripture, "God makes everything work together for the good, for those who love Him" (Romans 8:28) and I would have to tell myself to believe this, but deep down I always doubted, until one day I began to witness it in my own life.  One day we will be able to read about this time in history books..or blogs…but right now, while we are in it we just have to move forward. What ever it is you think you are called to do at this time, look inside yourself for the strength to carry on. 

[photo credit Jordan Madrid](https://unsplash.com/@jordanmadrid?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)