---
title: The Mission that Seems Impossible
author: A Voice in the Wilderness
date: 2020-06-21T00:00:00.000Z
hero: images/jezael-melgoza-e4b-plxipv4-unsplash.jpg
---
I do not remember studying the missions when I was in fourth grade with Sister Mary Lorraine for my teacher. I don’t remember much of what I learned there except to be very afraid of sinning. When my youngest reached fourth grade I was slightly more prepared to help her with the Mission project that loomed ahead since I had done this twice before by now. I have already admitted to my poor creative skills in my last blog post, Modern Art, so by the time we finished constructing the Mission model with styrofoam, wooden craft sticks, figurines of different sorts and the like that we I couldn't wait to put that big check mark next to the project on my “to do” list. Well, actually, I never really made a list, It was all in my head. My husband was always after me to write lists but for me it was an extra step and I would rather just get right to it.

So I am pretty proud of myself as we take it to school to set up the display in the school auditorium. And then I get a glimpse at all the others and it’s like that feeling you get in your stomach when you are humiliated. As I look around I see these amazing constructs. It looks like an architect built that and then I remember Susie’s father is one. And the engineering of some of the bell towers, oh wait, that would be David’s mom. Anyway, mine looked like a forth grader did it, oh wait...it was done by a forth grader! You see I just bought all the supplies; my daughter actually built her own Mission with very minimal help because by the third child I was just tired.

I’ll never forget the field trip we went on to the local Mission. I had spent a lot of time there in my younger days. I lived across the street from it while I was in the Navy. It was my parish and, come to think of it, my husband  picked me up from there for our first date. I was volunteering to help the photographer as we were putting the parish directory together. So there I sat with my daughter in this very familiar place. Even if I wasn’t personally familiar no matter what Catholic Church I entered it always felt like home. There was the one thing that never deviated, it was the large crucifix, with the Body of Christ hanging there in the middle.

Other schools were also present. Most were public schools as the amount of catholic schools has dwindled over the years. And there was a young boy behind us. He pointed to that ever-familiar symbol and asked who it was up there? That was literally the first time I ever really understood that not all people know about Jesus. 

I have gazed at the crucifix for so many years it is etched in my brain, it brings Paul’s words to mind, “we preach Christ crucified” (1 Corinthians 1:23). It seems these days it is hard to even say the name of Jesus without being dismissed. It seems the name of Jesus is more of a wall than a bridge. I can only think it must be because his name is used to win arguments and wars. “Thou shalt not take the Lord thy God’s name in vain” isn’t only when I or my child slips replacing the word gosh with God….I guess it’s both.

All I know is that after following the straight and narrow, after living so vertical for most of my life and not being able to hear anyone that doesn’t hold my values I don’t know how or why but one day I was able to hear and where there used to be anger that welled up in me there was now compassion. I heard Father Josh, an African American priest, talking about this himself in his interview with Father Mike, “Reconciling the Body of Christ”. When things are split in two, when there seems like no other way but my way, when I turn on the News and I can’t listen because it isn’t from my side, there has got to be a way to join them together. 

My dad loved to work with wood. He has built things for as long as I can remember. I have these old ladder chairs that he lamented getting rid of when we cleaned out their attic recently. He bought all four of them at a garage sale for twelve dollars sixty years ago and they were my mom and his dining room chairs. They shared many meals sitting in those chairs.  They were falling apart and he pit them back together and now they sit in my house today because I know how much they meant to him. They are a symbol of love and fidelity. For me they represent integrity. In a day when even the word love can be overused I can always look to my parents with gratitude for the faith they lived and passed on to me. God is love. And in my belief, He is what hangs there in the middle of every paradox. He is the Way, the Truth, The Life.

[Jezael Melgosa](https://unsplash.com/@jezael)